# Wallet

## Description
This is a simple application meant to mimic a web-based banking application. It allows users to transfer 
funds between accounts, view their transaction history, and view their account balance. Its primary purpose is to prove
that I can write a full-stack application using a variety of technologies, from the platform level, to the back-end,
to the front-end in an idiomatic way. Its secondary purpose is to allow me to learn more about the technologies that
I chose to employ for the application, namely Go for the front-end, MongoDB for the database, Angular for
the front-end, and Docker (and eventually Kubernetes) for deployment.

## Installation

### Back-end
As previously mentioned, the back-end is written in Go. To install the back-end, you will need to have Go installed
on your machine. You can download Go from the official website [here](https://go.dev/doc/install). Currently, the
repository uses version 1.22.1. Once you have Go installed, you can clone the repository and navigate to the
directory `./go_webserver`. From there you can either build the migrator app or the webserver app. The migrator
app used to create the database schema and seed the database with some initial data. The webserver app is the actual
webserver that serves the front-end and handles the API requests. To build the migrator app, you can run the following
command. Note that all commands are run from the root of the repository.
```bash
cd ./go_webserver
go build -o ${DESIRED_OUTPUT_NAME} ./cmd/migrator/
```
where DESIRED_OUTPUT_NAME is the name of the output file. To build the webserver app, you can run the following
command
```bash
cd ./go_webserver
go build -o ${DESIRED_OUTPUT_NAME} ./cmd/webserver/
```
where DESIRED_OUTPUT_NAME is the name of the output file. Once you have built the desired app, you can run it
by executing the output file. Both the webserver and migrator apps require a MongoDB instance to be 
running on the default port (`30001`), or you can specify a different port by setting the `MONGO_URL` environment 
variable. If you wish to run the DB, the migrator, and the webserver in Docker, you can use the provided docker-compose 
file. To run the docker-compose file and build the required images, you can run the following command
```bash
cd ./go_webserver
docker-compose up --build
```
Once this has been executed, you can peek into the database using the MongoDB CLI using the following command
```bash
mongosh "mongodb://mongo:30001/?replicaSet=rs0"
```
The database is named wallet and has two collections: accounts and transactions. The accounts collection contains
the account information for each user, and the transactions collection contains the transaction history for each user.
There will be no transactions in the transactions collection until you have made some transactions using the front-end.

You can also send POST and GET requests to the API using endpoints detailed in `go_webserver/docs/swagger.json`.
Note that docker-compose exposes the webserver on port `8080`, so you can send requests to the API using the following
URL: http://localhost:8080.

#### Creating the Swagger JSON
To generate the swagger.json and swagger.yaml files, you can run the following command
```bash
cd ./go_webserver
swag init -g ./cmd/webserver/main.go
```
These will be consumed by the front-end to generate the API functions.

### Front-end
The front-end is written in Angular. To install the front-end, you will need to have Node.js, npm, and Angular
installed on your machine. You can download Node.js and npm from the official website 
[here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/). The repository uses `node version v20.13.1` and `npm version 10.5.2`. 
To install Angular, you can run the following command
```bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
```
The repository uses `Angular version 18.1.1`. Once you have Angular installed, you can navigate to the 
`./angular_frontend` directory and run the following command to install the required dependencies
```bash
cd ./angular_frontend
npm install
```
Once the dependencies have been installed, you can introspect the API using the `swagger.json` file generated by the
back-end. To download the OpenAPI CLI, you can run the following command
```bash
npm install @openapitools/openapi-generator-cli -g
```

To generate the API functions, you can now run the following command
```bash
cd ./
openapi-generator-cli generate -i go_webserver/docs/swagger.json -g typescript-angular -o angular_frontend/projects/account-app/src/app/backend-api
```
This will generate the API functions in the `angular_frontend/projects/account-app/src/app/backend-api` directory. Once
that has been accomplished, you can run the following command to start the Angular development server
```bash
cd ./angular_frontend
ng serve
```
This will start the Angular development server on port `4200`. You can navigate to http://localhost:4200 to view the
front-end. The front-end will be able to communicate with the back-end running on port `8080`. Note that this is
hardcoded in the `proxy.conf.json` file in the angular_frontend directory.